I must confess that my own attempts to discover the upper partial tones in the human voice were most unsatisfactory until I applied the resonators. (p. 52)
The tones of wide-stopped organ pipes when gently blown are almost free from upper partials, and are accompanied only by a rush of wind. (p. 57)
...our present singers unfortunately seldom learn to take just intervals, because they are accustomed from the first to sing to the accompaniment of instruments which are tuned in equal temperament, and hence with imperfect consonances. (p. 207)
This assertion that the the minor system is much less consistent than the major will be combated by many modern musicians, just as they have contested that assertion that minor triads are generally inferior in harmoniousness to major triads. (p. 301)
We are justified in assuming that historically all music was developed from song. (p. 363)
Art works with design, but the work of art ought to have the appearance of being undesigned, and must be judged on that ground. (p. 366)
...very small deviations from this mathematical intonation will betray themselves by that restless fluctuation of tone known as beats. Indeed, there is no more sensitive means of proving the correctness of intervals. (p. 181)
Indeed it is notorious that practised violin players have a very delicate ear for distinguishing differences of pitch. (p. 208)
The resemblance of an Octave to its root is so great and striking that the dullest ear perceives it.
I have lately had a small electro-magnetic machine constructed with a constant velocity of rotation, and it has proved of great service in driving the siren. (p. 372)
Hence among all uncivilised people we find the Semitones neglected, and only the larger intervals retained. (p. 363)
As a matter of fact, the history of musical systems shews that there was much and long hesitation as to the tuning of the Thirds. (p. 255)
Light is also only a vibrational motion of a peculiar elastic medium, the luminous ether, just as sound is a vibrational motion of the air. (p. 49)
Hence the Europeans of those days could teach the Orientals nothing that they did not already know better themselves, except some imperfect rudiments of harmony which they did not want. (p.285)
On a string of the finest iron wire, such as is used in the manufacture of artificial flowers, 700 centimetres long, I was able to isolate the eighteenth partial tone. (p.80)
Nerves have been often and not unsuitably compared to telegraph wires. (p. 149)
In point of fact, nothing musical is forbidden. (p.357)
Monteverdi is the first composer who used chords of the dominant Seventh without preparation, for which he was severely blamed (p. 248)
Simple tones are dull. (p. 62)
We must not forget that a man left to himself is scarcely aware that a tone depends upon vibrations. (p. 231)
The clarinet is distinguished from all other orchestral wind instruments by having no evenly numbered partial tones. (p. 210)
Cold water squirted into the ear of a person with a perforated drumskin produces the most violent giddiness. (p.151)
My assertion that as many as 132 beats in a second are audible will perhaps appear very strange and incredible to acousticians. (p. 171)
The results of the preceding investigations furnish a method of constructing our modern scales and modes, from which all arbitrary assumption is excluded. (p. 5)
In this sense it is clear that music has a more immediate connection with pure sensation than any other of the fine arts. (p. 3)
Of course, such pieces of music require fine ears both in singer and hearer, to let the delicate gradation of expression receive its due, now that modern music has accustomed us to modes of expression so much more violent and drastic. (p. 225)
Ach, ich habe meine Stimmgabel verloren!
Hallo! Ich heisse Hermann. Und du?
This peculiar feeling of mechanical tingling in the ear had long ago struck me when two clear and powerful soprano voices executed passages in Thirds, in which case the combinational tone comes out very distinctly. (p. 158)
Heute ist schönes Wetter!
Hence on bowed instruments the difference between consonance and dissonance is clearly and distinctly marked, and the feeling for the justness of the intervals very certain; (p. 208)
Two consonant tones flow on quietly side by side in an undisturbed stream; dissonant tones cut one another up into separate pulses of tone. (p. 226)
Ultimately, then, the reason of the rational numerical relations of Pythagoras is to be found in the theorem of Fourier. (p. 229)
Musik macht spass!
For in nature we find not only beauty but ugliness, not only help but hurt. (p. 232)
It is very easy to make a mistake of an Octave. This has happened to the most celebrated musicians and acousticians. (p. 62)
The method of attacking and releasing tones are sometimes so characteristic that for the human voice they have been noted by a series of different letters. To these belong the explosive consonants B, D, G, and P, T, K. (p. 66)
It is very characteristic of brass instruments, as trumpets and trombones, that their tones commence abruptly and sluggishly. (p. 67)
It is just as in microscopes; the greater the magnifying power, the smaller the field of view. (p. 374)
An extremely sensitive means of making the vibrations of the air in a resonator visible, is a flat film of glycerined soap and water which is placed over its opening. (p. 374)
DESCRIPTION OF THE MECHANISM EMPLOYED FOR OPENING THE SEVERAL SERIES OF HOLES IN THE POLYPHONIC SIREN (p. 413)
When the organ took the lead among musical instruments it was not yet tempered. (p. 428)
Before the minor chord could be used to close a piece of music the feeling for harmony had to be cultivated in a new direction. (p. 291)
In the present century, the Archbishop Chrysanthus of Dyrrachium declares that modern Greeks have no pleasure in polyphonic music. (p. 196)
